
1) Explain REST and RESTful

REST (Representational State Transfer) is an architecture to design web services that use the existing protocols of the web.

It is mainly about the following principles:
- Uniform Interface: All REST APIs follow the same concept.
- Client-Server: There is a client and a server, and each can be updated/developed independently. The contract is the API with its URLs.
- Stateless: The web service should be stateless - no sessions, no history.
- Cacheable: Requests can be cached on the server or client side.
- Layered System: The web service can consist of multiple layers: API, storage, authentication, security policies, load-balancing could live on separated servers. But the client just connects to a URI without knowledge about the layers.

A RESTful web service adheres to all of the above mentioned principles - it implements the definition of REST. Here, the server owns resources and the client can request/update/create resources through the server.

2) Explain the architectural style for the creation of a web API (client server communication, formatting language, etc.)

- Use HTTP for client-server communication.
- All operations on a resource are accessed through the same URL, where the HTTP request type defines what should be done with the resource.
- No sessions on the server.
- Use XML or JSON as a formatting language for request and response bodies.

3) Explain HTTP requests types when used with RESTful web (GET, PUT, POST, etc.)

Semantically these requests types are used for different queries and commands.
GET - A query to list all resources or get a specific resource.
POST - Sending data to create or store a new resource.
PUT - Sending data to update or replace an existing resource (idempotent, as it replaces a resource with the supplied data, which is complete).
PATCH - Sending data to update or modify an existing resource (not idempotent, as the sent data is not a complete resource, it is used to update a sub.
DELETE - Delete an existing resource.

4) Explain the difference between stateless and stateful protocol. Which type of protocol is HTTP ?

A stateless protocol does not need to retain a state (or session information) on the server-side, i.e., incoming messages can be understood in its own without needing additional (historic) context.
A stateful protocol requires the server to maintain/store a state. This state is needed to keep the communication working. An example would be TCP.
HTTP is a stateless protocol. Each request can be understood by the server without it needing to keep any session information.

5) Explain the difference between a GET and a POST (like how are sent the parameters)

A GET request should normally be used for requests that do not change any state on the server - it should be used for querying information. Parameters/payload can be sent via query parameters.
A POST request can change the state on the server - it is for sending data to the server. Parameters/payload can be sent via query parameters or in the body of the request.

6) You can’t work out how to solve a coding problem. What do you do to find the answer?

I will do a thorough online research about the problem - as well as reading up on the documentation and the requirements.
If this fails or if I am still unsure about it, I will ask colleagues and friends, whether they have an idea about the problem or can help me with finding better keywords for searching for the solution.
I would also consider, posting a question on Reddit/StackOverflow/Gitter or opening an issue on GitHub/GitLab if the problem is related to an open source library.
Sometimes it can also help to go jogging or do something unrelated to relax the mind and then come back with a better idea.
